Elvish Scout, v0
================

Focus
-----

The goal is to study the base feature set, develop the data model and create the 
infrastructure to be used by the project. I will also try to test some small but 
important UI features using the selected technologies.

It's not important to create a playable version of the game, I should concentrate 
on stableshing a maintainable development pace, that can be followed easily and 
that accounts for periods of inactivity, for that, this iteration should strive 
to create a solid development infrastructure.

[horizontal]
Planned tasks:: Stable data model; +
UI layout; +
Working chat application; +
Login; +
Spike Solutions: Card movement dragging; Card flipping; Snap to grid; Chat application;

Difficulties
------------

Most difficulties in this iteration were due to UI gestures and interaction being 
tested. jQuery has proven to help with the all UI but it's still JavaScript inside 
a browser: too much work in too small things.

Stable data model: Given that I have never played any CCG game, even if testingother 
virtual CCGs that exist, I had some trouble figure out what really was needed and 
what is my wrong impressions of the game, gained by watching friends play Magic the Gathering.

UI layout: The usual web constraints apply to the project, creating a UI inside 
the browser window, that allows users to properly play the game and at the same 
time offering several extra tools is proving to be a chanlange. UI design is stable 
for now, but will most like need to be revised when testing begins.

Login: No problem with login system.

Card movement dragging: Movement shows a few quirks, cards sometimes jump to a 
position a bit far from the mouse pointer.

Card flipping: Proper flipping is insane... Flipping a card involves getting a 
new card from the deck in a motion that shows the card being turned. Given that 
correct 2D is not available in a browser, features are limited, creating such and 
interaction would wast to much time. Existing plugins for jQuery are way to heavy 
and meant only to other application types.

Snap to grid: Sometimes works, some others doesn't. Snapping to an area in the 
board is unnecessary, if the user is to have complete freedom, snapping would only 
serve to annoy. Snapping cards to one another is useful but collides with drag'n drop.

Chat application: Getting the correct message order, already planning for the 
future when IDs reset. Using dates falls under the awful date handling abilities 
of JavaScript. Further testing needs to be made.

Achievements
------------

I consider this iteration to be a success as it allowed my to properly test all 
the things I had doubts about. I was able to create the basic drag, snap, and flip 
actions that make up for the main user interaction with the game. UI design seems 
to be usable enough to be put into production.

Integrating yii framework was easy and the development process is coming into shape, 
it doesn't feel much of a burden to maintain, though another developer in the team 
could really make a difference.

Next
----

Since this iteration focus was not in providing a usable application, the next 
iteration should try to revert that and offer a complete and playable game. Even 
if the used cards are not correctly shown or are not the correct one.

In short, to have a game ready for testing must be the main objective.